== ITweetSense Application

This application was designed as a social experiment. The original goal was to determine the tendecies of a particular twitter user. We analyze the text of each tweet and by using the Alchemy Application Programming Interface we get a sentiment analysis on the text. The Alchemy API uses keywords and phrases to label a tweet either negative or positive. It also gives the user a score. 

For example if the tweet was:

"I hate going back to school after a good summer!!!"

the alchemy API would rate this with the following object

sentiment = {"type" => "negative", "score" => "-0.87495604"}

we use this sentiment object to determine average negative vs positve scores as well as counting how many of your tweets are labeled either negative or positive. 

== Instructions

In order to access this application you will need an active twitter account. Once within the user page click on the sentiment analysis test to get your statistics! 

All the graphs are presented using a Java Script library called HighCharts. Before we were using a gem called gruff that would create images for the graphs. However this became very complicated since the images are hard to store on a heroku database and because they cannot be easily updated. Since the twitter information is constantly changing I opted for a more "live desing" which allows the user to have relevant statistics even if his twitter account has changed significantly. 

== Gems used

gem 'alchemy-api-rb',
gem 'figaro',
gem 'omniauth-twitter',
gem 'twitter',

== Comments, Questions or Bug Reports

Please email me at lostaunaum@gmail.com

== Copyright 

Copyright (c) 2014 Marco Andre Lostaunau. If you would like to try the Alchemy API yourself please visit http://www.alchemyapi.com/
